LDA expansion (#14)
MrLongbottom/P10-Article: sections/plate_notation.tex

\section{Topic Models}\label{sec:plate_notation}
In this section, topic models that are explored in the experiment are detailed.
This covers the standard \gls{lda} from \citet{blei2003latent}, our category and author metadata models, which build on the concept of \gls{lda}, and our taxonomy metadata model, which uses the \acrlong{pam}.

\subsection{Standard \gls{lda}}
The purpose of \gls{lda}, and topic models in general, is to create a tool for exploring collections of text.
Topic models do this by uncovering the underlying semantic structure of a text collection by using hierarchical Bayesian models.

> \Gls{lda} uncovers this semantic structure by discovering patterns of word use in documents, and finding topics based on these~\cite{blei2009topic}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
\Gls{lda} uncovers this semantic structure by discovering patterns of word use in documents and finding topics based on these~\cite{blei2009topic}.
```

> \Gls{lda} uncovers this semantic structure by discovering patterns of word use in documents, and finding topics based on these~\cite{blei2009topic}.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
\Gls{lda} uncovers this semantic structure by discovering patterns of word use in documents and finding topics based on these~\cite{blei2009topic}.
```

The standard \gls{lda} by \citet{blei2003latent} imagines the following generative process:
$D$ is the number of documents in the corpus, $N_d$ is the number of words in document $d$, $V$ is the size of the vocabulary, and $K$ is the number of topics.
Topics are represented as distributions over words and documents are represented as distributions of topics.

> LDA assumes that the topics are shared across the corpus, while the document-topic distributions are unique for each document.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
\Gls{lda} assumes that the topics are shared across the corpus, while the document-topic distributions are unique for each document.
```

Likewise, for each document $d \in \{1,\dots, D\}$ a document-topic distribution $\theta_d$ is sampled from a K-dimensional Dirichlet distribution parameterized by $\alpha$.
For each word $n \in \{1, \dots, N_d\}$ in each document $d$, a topic $z_{d,n}$ is sampled from a K-multinomial distribution $\theta_d$, and then a word $w_{d,n}$ is sampled from a V-multinomial distribution $\beta_{z_{d,n}}$.
The generative process for each document is seen in these steps:

\vspace{\topsep}
\begin{enumerate}
	\item Draw topic proportion $\theta_d \sim Dirichlet(\alpha)$
	\item For each word $n$ in the document:
	\begin{enumerate}
		\item Draw topic assignment $z_{d,n} \sim Mult(\theta_d)$
		\item Draw word $w_{d,n} \sim Mult(\beta_{z_{d,n}})$
	\end{enumerate}
\end{enumerate}
\vspace{\topsep}

The generative process for topics and documents, generates a list of $K$ topics and $D$ documents that can be used as a $K \times V$ matrix of topic-word distributions and a $D \times K$ matrix of document-topic distributions, respectively.
The plate notation for \gls{lda} can be seen in \autoref{fig:standard_lda}.

\input{figures/lda_plate}

> After training the \gls{lda} model there are multiple possibilities for exploring the corpus using the posterior distributions of the hidden random variables.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After training the \gls{lda} model, there are multiple possibilities for exploring the corpus using the posterior distributions of the hidden random variables.
```

> One can visualize the posterior topics of the model, e.g., by sorting by the highest probabilities of words in $\beta_k$.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
One possibility is to visualize the posterior topics of the model, e.g., by sorting $\beta_k$ according to the highest probabilities.
```

> It is also possible to visualize the documents by, e.g., sorting by the highest topic proportions $\theta_d$.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is also possible to visualize the documents by, e.g., sorting by the highest topic proportions in $\theta_d$.
```
